Booting Instructions
====================

## Creator Ci40

Ci40 uses the u-boot bootloader.

Documentation for Ci40 is available on docs.creatordev.io.

Some additional notes below:

### U-Boot

Generally speaking, you should not need to reflash the u-boot generated by this layer manually.

 * Be very very careful if you want to flash u-boot.

Recovering u-boot from a bricked Ci40 requires external hardware.

Check the Creator Ci40 docs for more information on how to reflash u-boot from within u-boot.

https://docs.creatordev.io/ci40/guides/openwrt-platform/#building-u-boot

### Kernel

The easiest way to test the kernel is to set up a tftp server and load the kernel file via tftp.

The Ci40 already has the ethboot environment variable saved to assist in booting a kernel from tftp

Details are provided in the Ci40 docs here:

https://docs.creatordev.io/ci40/guides/openwrt-platform/#tftp-boot

## MIPSfpga (xilfpga)

The MIPSfpga package you have will already have instructions on how to load the Linux Kernel.

Please follow those same instructions but using the vmlinux file generated in tmp/deploy/images/xilfpga/*

Please note: Poky is bigger than the minimal buildroot provided with the MIPSfpga package.

It can take a while before userspace messages are seen on the console.

## UTM8

The UTM8 bootloader has multiple stages. Pause u-boot in the stage 3 bootloader.

Copy the vmlinux file to your tftp server and then load the vmlinux file using tftp e.g.

	dhcp
	env set serverip {yourtftpserverip};
	tftp $(loadaddr) /vmlinux;


Then use the 'bootoctlinux' command that supports booting the vmlinux file for the kernel. e.g.

	bootoctlinux $(loadaddr) numcores=4 coremask=0xf mem=0 root=/dev/sda2 rw

The rootfs can be on nfs or a SATA hdd if connected.

## SEAD3

SEAD3 has a u-boot bootloader and uses the uImage file format for kernels before v4.8.

Pause u-boot, copy the uImage file to your tftp server and load the kernel using tftp. e.g.

	dhcp
	env set serverip {yourtftpserverip};
	dhcp uImage;

Set the bootargs variable if needed. e.g.

	setenv bootargs "console=ttyS1,115200n8r"

Then use the bootm command to boot the kernel e.g.

	bootm

The rootfs can be on nfs or a peripheral

## QEMU


Please see the [Using QEMU](README.qemu.md) file.
